# ISO 26262 Qualification

## Quality is a process

* You can't pour a bucket of quality into a finished product
* It's a process you follow throughout the product life-cycle
* You might follow a process that is in accordance with a published ISO standard

## Certification and Qualification

* You are responsible for __certifying__ that the development of *your* product
  was in accordance with such a standard.
* You might choose tools that are __qualified__ as being suitable for use with
  such a standards compliant process.

## What is ISO 26262?

> (ISO 26262-1:2018) is intended to be applied to safety-related systems that
> include one or more electrical and/or electronic (E/E) systems and that are
> installed in series production road vehicles, excluding mopeds.
>
> The document addresses possible hazards caused by malfunctioning behaviour of
> safety-related E/E systems, including interaction of these systems.

From [iso.org](https://www.iso.org/standard/68383.html)

## And that has qualified tools?

ISO 26262-8:2018(E), Section 11.1.b says:

> to provide means for the qualification of the software tool when applicable,
> in order to create evidence that the software tool is suitable to be used to
> support the activities or tasks required by the ISO 26262 series of standards
> (i.e. the user can rely on the correct functioning of a software tool for
> those activities or tasks required by the ISO 26262 series of standards).

## Confidence in your Tools

* What is the tool supposed to do?
* Does it do what it is supposed to do?
* Does someone I trust believe it does what it is supposed to do?

## What is the tool supposed to do?

* Rust doesn't have a written specification ... yet.
* So we wrote the Ferrocene Language Specification
  * <https://spec.ferrocene.dev>

## Does it do what it is supposed to do?

* Rust already had an __excellent__ test suite
* Our work was mainly __joining the dots__ between the tests and the
  specification, and __automating everything__
* Nothing hits our main branch unless the tests pass
* We then documented everything in a Safety Manual

## Does someone I trust believe it does what it is supposed to do?

We sent all our evidence to TÜV SÜD for ISO 26262 and IEC 61508 qualification.

So, far they say:

> ...from the general approach, structure, format and contents of the
> provided artifacts there no major questions or anything missing.

The qualification certificate is expected very soon.

## And I get?

You can purchase from us the digitally-signed documents as part of a
*Qualification Kit*. You can then provide these to *your* assessor when
certifying *your* development process.

## But it's also open source

Anyone can inspect the unsigned documents and test matrices in our open-source repository without a contract.

<https://github.com/ferrocene/ferrocene>

<https://public-docs.ferrocene.dev>
